---
title:  HP P2000 on VMware - LUN 0
description: HP P2000 on VMware - LUN 0
date: 2012-12-12
tags: [HPE P2000, vmware]
---

tl;dr

For those of you who don't know, the HP P2000 produces a "management LUN", operating on LUN 0, which it presents to all hosts within its zone. 
 I believe this to be the first community created and supported, VIB file for VMware ESXi, outside of firewall management components. It can be applied like a standard VMware patch. 
 Its purpose is to mask those devices off from VMware. 



### The HP P2000 - On VMware

The goal of this HP management LUN is that, on a Windows 2003/8 host, you can run HP's various management tools. The reality however is that the majority of users, running VMware, Xenserver or similar are never able to access those tools, and have every management option available to them on the web GUI, or occasionally the CLI.
 It's been suggested in several online forums that a VMware best practise is to mask these paths off. I haven't been able to determine if there's a significant risk involved in not doing so - but I certainly find all the extra paths cosmetically annoying.

{% highlight bash %}
~ # esxcfg-scsidevs -l
naa.600c0ff00013e0670000000000000000
   Device Type: Enclosure Svc Dev
   Size: 0 MB
   Display Name: HP Fibre Channel Enclosure Svc Dev (naa.600c0ff00013e0670000000000000000)
   Multipath Plugin: NMP
   Console Device: /vmfs/devices/genscsi/naa.600c0ff00013e0670000000000000000
   Devfs Path: /vmfs/devices/genscsi/naa.600c0ff00013e0670000000000000000
   Vendor: HP        Model: P2000G3 FC/iSCSI  Revis: T230
   SCSI Level: 5  Is Pseudo: false Status: on
   Is RDM Capable: true  Is Removable: false
   Is Local: false Is SSD: false
   Other Names:
      vml.020d000000600c0ff00013e0670000000000000000503230303047
   VAAI Status: unsupported
{% endhighlight %}


### Officially..

The closest thing to an official, supported method of doing so is to break into the Technical Support mode (and watch your various alarms trip) and run these commands:

{% highlight bash %}
esxcli storage core claimrule add --rule 110 -t location -C 0 -L 0 -P MASK_PATH
esxcli storage core claimrule load
Rules would be verified in this way:
esxcli storage core claimrule list

You could revert to the default state like this:
esxcli storage core claimrule remove --rule 110
{% endhighlight %}

VMware's official documentation on this can be found here: http://kb.vmware.com/selfservice/microsites/search.do?language=en_US&cmd=displayKC&externalId=1009449 

### Unofficially
The difficulty I had was that, by the time there was a data center full of servers, managing this sort of process becomes a mess. The next step in automating anything VMware based is PowerCLI. For this purpose though, whilst it would do the job, I thought I could do better. The following article was very helpful. Many thanks Duncan: http://www.yellow-bricks.com/2011/11/29/how-to-create-your-own-vib-file/ 

### Reverse Engineering an existing HP bundle
Following a similar process, instead of starting with a SCSI driver, I started with the HP P2000 VAAI bundle, and reverse engineering this package led to creating my own package. 
 The file you first download from HP is: .hp_vaaip_p2000_210.zip
 Unzipping this reveals HP's release notes, and the file hp_vaaip_p2000_offline-bundle-210.zip (the actual patch). This is suitable for checking into VMware's Update Manager.

- Using a standard zip application from here, we see a series of metadata, and the vib file Hewlett-Packard_bootbank_vmware-esx-hp_vaaip_p2000_2.1.0-2.vib.
- Here we catch up to Duncan. The unix "ar" file, easiest opened with 7-Zip on Windows, contained the file vmware-esx-hp_v.
- Now we deviate from Duncan, the file is not a .tgz. It does start with gzip (again, 7-zip opens this) to get **vmware-esx-hp_v.vtar**. This is however, VMware's proprietry format: This can only be decompressed with VMware's tool, [documented here](http://www.virtuallyghetto.com/2011/08/how-to-create-and-modify-vgz-vmtar.html).
 By copying the .vtar to an ESXi host, using the commands above, I was able to extract **vmware.esx-hp_v.tar**. As you may expect, this was a tar file. Inside it we see:
**usr/libexec/jumpstart/plugins/hp_vaaip_p2000.json**
You can download this original HP file here, and see an example of how HP implements custom rules. This in turn points you at the /usr/libexec/jumpstartplugins/*.json files in any ESXi server, which contain a wealth of customisation, VMware configuration. This leads to my file, lolp2000.json, which implements masks appropriate to achieve our goal. However, you can't just dump this on a filesystem. Reasons why are explained here: http://kb.vmware.com/selfservice/microsites/search.do?language=en_US&cmd=displayKC&externalId=2007381 

 By generally following the reverse process of breaking down the .vib file, I rebuilt it from the lolp2000.json. There were a few places I deviated from Duncan's guide: 

- I chose to stick with a .vtar, even though it's a bit more annoying
- Rather than removing the checksums, I generated correct checksums and updated the descriptor accordingly. Although it would be rather hard to corrupt a roughly 300 byte file, I always feel it's safer to use such mechanisms when available.
- When installing the .vib file, I found that esxcli would complain about the order of the files within its archive. Specifically, the format seemed to have to be: 

        ar -r filename.vib descriptor.xml sig.pkcs7 test_v

Placing the test file earlier in the command, as per Duncan's example, only generated errors like "first file is not descriptor.xml". 


### But rly... .json
This isn't totally about .vib files, they are documented now. What do we put in one? Well there's a directory full of .json plugins that are basically execute on bootup. Quoting from HP's original: 

{% highlight json %}
{
   "operations" :
   {
      "start" :
      [
         /* Register plugin */
         /* use -d <dependency_on_any_other_module_if_any> if necessary */
         "storage core plugin registration add -m hp_vaaip_p2000 -N VAAI -P HP_VAAIP_P2000",

         /* Add the Filter Rule for FC */
         "storage core claimrule add --claimrule-class Filter --autoassign --plugin VAAI_FILTER --type vendor --vendor HP --model \"P2000 G3 FC\"",
         /* Add the VAAI Rule for FC */
         "storage core claimrule add --claimrule-class VAAI --autoassign --plugin HP_VAAIP_P2000 --type vendor --vendor HP --model \"P2000 G3 FC\"",
... and so on...

{% endhighlight %}

There's a series of operations other than "start" that appear in the default distribution, but this one's the most obvious - it refers to a series of esxcli commands that are executed when the system starts. But when? 
 Well, it ends this way: 
{% highlight json %}
   "metadata" :
   {
      "version"  : 1,
      "requires" : ["vmkeventd", "vmkernel vmkapi compatibility", "PSA filter pre-claim configuration"],
      "provides" : ["PSA Filter claim rules", "PSA VAAI claim rules", "storage i/o multipathing"]
   }

{% endhighlight %}


Anything subsequent that "requires" the "PSA Filter claim rules" will execute after this file. What made me stumble was there there is no "dependencies" field, as far as I could see. How do I make a claimrule execute before several other modules, which appear to require the LUNS be operational? The answer is, use an existing "provides". 
 There are several such modules already in use, which "require" the "path masks" component. So I just made lolp2000 require it:
 
    "provides" : ["path masks"]



### Use
I'd encourage the community to test this patch out. Although obviously, any VMware patch can have significant impact, the only file touched on your system is the new lolp2000.json file, and it's easy to audit its contents. 
 You will of course need to set your host acceptance level to "Community Supported": 

    esxcli software acceptance set --level CommunitySupported

Then apply the patch like so:

    esxcli software vib install -v /tmp/lolp2000.vib


I'm presently looking into the "Community Packaging Tools" (great product for our needs) and hope to present a standard .zip bundle shortly. 

### Downloads
- [My completed .vib file (you'll need to "save as, or IE will try to render it for some reason)](/assets/downloads/lolp2000.vib)
- [HP's original .json file](/assets/downloads/hp_vaaip_p2000.json)
- [My .json file](/assets/downloads/lolp2000.json)
